# BasicSpringApplication

Upon running this application you will be lead to the **Home Page** where you will see the options to go to the **Books tab** or the **Authors tab**. These tabs allow you to read the details depending on the choice selected. Once in each tab you will also have the option to return home.
To start testing the application you will need to create an author which can be completed under the Author tab. When in the Author tab, you will see a few word links. The first one being to "Create new author", the second one "View Books" will lead you to the Books tab and the third one leads you back to the Home Page. To create a new author select the word link stating so. This will bring up the **Author form** which is used both for create new authors and updating authors once you have some created. In this form you are asked to enter a "name" and can **press Submit** to add the author. You also have the option to go back to the Home Page. After creating a new author the page will redirect you back to your Authors Tab. Where it will show the new authors details. Once you have an author in your Authors tab you will see a few button options. One to **"Update"**, one to **"Delete"** and one to **"View-Details"** of the author. The button words say it all as the update one allows you to update your author, the delete one will delete the author and the view Details will show all the authors details including which books they have written.
Once you have an author or two you will then want to head over to the Book tab to create the Book written by said Author. Upon selecting the "View Books" tab show under the author tab you will see some similar options... first one being to "Create new Book", and below this is the option to "View Authors or go back home. 
To create a new book, please select the work link **"Create new Book"** where it will lead you to the **Book Form** which is used for creating new books as well as updating books that are already created. While in the Book Form you will also see the option to go back to the Home Page. But to create a new book, you will be asked to enter the book title and to select a author from the drop down list and press Submit. This will lead you back to the Book List where it will show the updated information. Once a Book is created you will also have the option to "Update" which helps to update a book details, "Delete"which will allow you to delete the book, or "View-Details" which will allow you to view a book details.